README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://huggingface.co/blog/assets/community-datasets/thumbnail.png" width="500px"/>
</p>

<p align="center">🤗 <a href="https://huggingface.co/DIBT" target="_blank">Spaces & Datasets</a></p>

# Data is Better Together

Data is Better Together is a collab between 🤗 Hugging Face, 🏓 Argilla, and the Open Source ML community. Our goal is to empower the open source community to build collectively build impactful datasets. 

## What have we done so far?

The community has created a dataset of 10k prompts [DIBT/10k_prompts_ranked](https://huggingface.co/datasets/DIBT/10k_prompts_ranked) ranked by quality as part of Data is Better Together. So far over 385 people have contributed annotations to this dataset.

## What are currently working on?

We are currently working to support open source initiatives to use Argilla and the Hugging Face Hub to collectively build impactful open datasets. You can read more in this [blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/community-datasets). You can get involved in this effort by joining our [Discord channel](https://discord.gg/hugging-face-879548962464493619).

Commit message:

Update README with current active projects

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://huggingface.co/blog/assets/community-datasets/thumbnail.png" width="500px"/>
</p>

<p align="center">🤗 <a href="https://huggingface.co/DIBT" target="_blank">Spaces & Datasets</a></p>

# Data is Better Together

Data is Better Together is a collab between 🤗 Hugging Face, 🏓 Argilla, and the Open Source ML community. Our goal is to empower the open source community to build collectively build impactful datasets. 

## What have we done so far?

The community has created a dataset of 10k prompts [DIBT/10k_prompts_ranked](https://huggingface.co/datasets/DIBT/10k_prompts_ranked) ranked by quality as part of Data is Better Together.

## What are currently working on?

We are working on several strands of work. Here are current active projects.
 
### 1. Prompt ranking

Our first DIBT activity is focused on ranking the quality of prompts. We have already released version 1.0 of this dataset [DIBT/10k_prompts_ranked](https://huggingface.co/datasets/DIBT/10k_prompts_ranked). So far over 385 people have contributed annotations to this dataset but we are continuing to collect more annotations!

- Follow the progress of this effort in this [dashboard](https://huggingface.co/spaces/DIBT/prompt-collective-dashboard)
- You can contribute to the ranking of prompts [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/DIBT/prompt-collective)
