domain-specific-datasets/README.md, before:

# Domain Specific Dataset Project

This is project to bootstrap the creation of domain-specific datasets for training models. The goal is to create a set of tools that help users to collaborate with domain experts.

## Collaboration

### Why we need domain specific datasets?

LLMs are increasingly used as economical alternatives to human participants across various domains such as computational social science, user testing, annotation tasks, and opinion surveys. However, the utility of LLMs in replicating specific human nuances and expertises is limited by inherent training constraints. Models are trained on large-scale datasets that are often biased, incomplete, or unrepresentative of the diverse human experiences they aim to replicate. This problems impacts specific expert domains like as well as underrepresented groups in the training data.

Also, building synthetic datasets that are representative of the domain can help to improve the performance of models in the domain.

### What is the goal of this project?

The goal of this project is to share and collaborate with domain experts to create domain-specific datasets that can be used to train models. We aim to create a set of tools that help users to collaborate with domain experts to create datasets that are representative of the domain. We aim to share the datasets openly on the hub and share the tools and skills to build these datasets.

### How can you contribute?

🧑🏼‍🔬 If you are a domain expert, you can contribute by sharing your expertise and collaborating with us to create domain-specific datasets. We're working with user easy to use applications that help you to define the seed data and create the dataset. We're also working on tools that help you to annotate the dataset and improve the quality of the dataset.

🧑🏻‍🔧 If you are a (inspiring) Machine Learning engineer, you can setup the project and its tools. You can run the synthetic data generation pipelines. And maybe even get round to training models.


## Project Overview

### 1. Select a domain and find collaborators

We start by selecting a domain and finding colaborators who can help us to create the dataset. 

🧑🏼‍🔬 If you are a domain expert, you could find an ML engineer to help you to create the dataset. 

🧑🏻‍🔧 If you are an ML engineer, you could find a domain expert to help you to create the dataset.

🧑‍🚀 If you're both, you could start by defining the seed data and creating the dataset.

### 2. Setup your project

First you need o setup the project and its tools. For this, we use [this application](https://huggingface.co/spaces/argilla/domain-specific-seed). 

### 3. Define the domain knowledge

Next we need to get the domain expert to define the seed data. This is the data that is used to create the dataset. Once the seed data is defined, we add it to the dataset repo.

![Setup the project](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/huggingface/data-is-better-together/3ac24642454764c8c7d56f0ffdd1a134c1cd37b1/domain-specific-datasets/assets/setup.png)

> **Domain topics** are the topics that the domain expert wants to include in the dataset. For example, if the domain is farming, the domain topics could be "soil", "crops", "weather", etc.

> **Domain description** is a description of the domain. For example, if the domain is farming, the domain description could be "Farming is the practice of cultivating crops and livestock for food, fiber, biofuel, medicinal plants, and other products used to sustain and enhance human life."

> **Domain perspectives** are the perspectives that the domain expert wants to include in the dataset. For example, if the domain is farming, the domain perspectives could be "farmer", "agricultural scientist", "agricultural economist", etc.

### 4. Generate the dataset

Next we can move on to generating the dataset from the seed data.

![Run the pipeline](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/huggingface/data-is-better-together/3ac24642454764c8c7d56f0ffdd1a134c1cd37b1/domain-specific-datasets/assets/pipeline.png)

#### 4.1. Generate Instructions

The pipeline takes the topic and perspective and generates instructions for the dataset, then the instructions are evolved by an LLM to create more instructions.

#### 4.2 Generate Responses

The pipeline takes the instructions and generates responses for the dataset, then the responses are evolved by an LLM to create higher quality responses.

#### 4.3 Refine the dataset

Finally, the pipeline pushes the dataset to the hub and Argilla space. The domain expert can then refine the dataset by annotating the dataset and improving the quality of the dataset.

### Project Structure

- `app/` : A streamlit app to help domain experts to define seed data like system prompt and topics, by creating an empty dataset on the hub.
- `app/pipeline.py` : The distilabel pipeline code that is used to create the dataset.
- `scripts/` : Adhoc scripts that we used to ease annotation with vector search.
### Example Farming Project

Here are examples of the resources for our farming example:
- The seeding space: https://huggingface.co/spaces/argilla/domain-specific-seed for the domain expert.
- The demo dataset: https://huggingface.co/datasets/argilla/farming we've created
- The argilla space: https://huggingface.co/spaces/argilla/farming
- The pipeline code: https://github.com/argilla-io/distilabel-workbench/tree/main/projects/farming

Commit message:

added list of compatible endpoints also to README

domain-specific-datasets/README.md, after:

# Domain Specific Dataset Project

This is project to bootstrap the creation of domain-specific datasets for training models. The goal is to create a set of tools that help users to collaborate with domain experts.

## Collaboration

### Why we need domain specific datasets?

LLMs are increasingly used as economical alternatives to human participants across various domains such as computational social science, user testing, annotation tasks, and opinion surveys. However, the utility of LLMs in replicating specific human nuances and expertises is limited by inherent training constraints. Models are trained on large-scale datasets that are often biased, incomplete, or unrepresentative of the diverse human experiences they aim to replicate. This problems impacts specific expert domains like as well as underrepresented groups in the training data.

Also, building synthetic datasets that are representative of the domain can help to improve the performance of models in the domain.

### What is the goal of this project?

The goal of this project is to share and collaborate with domain experts to create domain-specific datasets that can be used to train models. We aim to create a set of tools that help users to collaborate with domain experts to create datasets that are representative of the domain. We aim to share the datasets openly on the hub and share the tools and skills to build these datasets.

### How can you contribute?

🧑🏼‍🔬 If you are a domain expert, you can contribute by sharing your expertise and collaborating with us to create domain-specific datasets. We're working with user easy to use applications that help you to define the seed data and create the dataset. We're also working on tools that help you to annotate the dataset and improve the quality of the dataset.

🧑🏻‍🔧 If you are a (inspiring) Machine Learning engineer, you can setup the project and its tools. You can run the synthetic data generation pipelines. And maybe even get round to training models.


## Project Overview

### 1. Select a domain and find collaborators

We start by selecting a domain and finding colaborators who can help us to create the dataset. 

🧑🏼‍🔬 If you are a domain expert, you could find an ML engineer to help you to create the dataset. 

🧑🏻‍🔧 If you are an ML engineer, you could find a domain expert to help you to create the dataset.

🧑‍🚀 If you're both, you could start by defining the seed data and creating the dataset.

### 2. Setup your project

First you need o setup the project and its tools. For this, we use [this application](https://huggingface.co/spaces/argilla/domain-specific-seed). 

### 3. Define the domain knowledge

Next we need to get the domain expert to define the seed data. This is the data that is used to create the dataset. Once the seed data is defined, we add it to the dataset repo.

![Setup the project](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/huggingface/data-is-better-together/3ac24642454764c8c7d56f0ffdd1a134c1cd37b1/domain-specific-datasets/assets/setup.png)

> **Domain topics** are the topics that the domain expert wants to include in the dataset. For example, if the domain is farming, the domain topics could be "soil", "crops", "weather", etc.

> **Domain description** is a description of the domain. For example, if the domain is farming, the domain description could be "Farming is the practice of cultivating crops and livestock for food, fiber, biofuel, medicinal plants, and other products used to sustain and enhance human life."

> **Domain perspectives** are the perspectives that the domain expert wants to include in the dataset. For example, if the domain is farming, the domain perspectives could be "farmer", "agricultural scientist", "agricultural economist", etc.

### 4. Generate the dataset

Next we can move on to generating the dataset from the seed data.

![Run the pipeline](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/huggingface/data-is-better-together/3ac24642454764c8c7d56f0ffdd1a134c1cd37b1/domain-specific-datasets/assets/pipeline.png)

For generating instructions and responses, you're going to need an endpoint. You can find compatible models from the Hugging Face Inference API here:

-   🔋Projects with sufficient resources could take advantage of [LLama3 70b](https://api-inference.huggingface.co/models/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B)
-   🪫Projects with less resources could take advantage of [LLama 3 8b](https://api-inference.huggingface.co/models/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B)
-   🍃Projects with even less resources could take advantage of [Phi-2](https://api-inference.huggingface.co/models/microsoft/phi-2)

[Hugggingface Pro](https://huggingface.co/pricing) gives access to more compute resources.

#### 4.1. Generate Instructions

The pipeline takes the topic and perspective and generates instructions for the dataset, then the instructions are evolved by an LLM to create more instructions.

#### 4.2 Generate Responses

The pipeline takes the instructions and generates responses for the dataset, then the responses are evolved by an LLM to create higher quality responses.

#### 4.3 Refine the dataset

Finally, the pipeline pushes the dataset to the hub and Argilla space. The domain expert can then refine the dataset by annotating the dataset and improving the quality of the dataset.

### Project Structure

- `app/` : A streamlit app to help domain experts to define seed data like system prompt and topics, by creating an empty dataset on the hub.
- `app/pipeline.py` : The distilabel pipeline code that is used to create the dataset.
- `scripts/` : Adhoc scripts that we used to ease annotation with vector search.
### Example Farming Project

Here are examples of the resources for our farming example:
- The seeding space: https://huggingface.co/spaces/argilla/domain-specific-seed for the domain expert.
- The demo dataset: https://huggingface.co/datasets/argilla/farming we've created
- The argilla space: https://huggingface.co/spaces/argilla/farming
- The pipeline code: https://github.com/argilla-io/distilabel-workbench/tree/main/projects/farming
